docs: catalog - extending the model, and relations (#3291)
backstage/backstage: docs/features/software-catalog/well-known-relations.md

---
id: well-known-relations
title: Well-known Relations between Catalog Entities
sidebar_label: Well-known Relations
description: Documentation that lists a number of well known Relations, that
have defined semantics. They can be attached to catalog entities and consumed
by plugins as needed.
---

This section lists a number of well known
[entity relation types](descriptor-format.md#common-to-all-kinds-relations),
that have defined semantics. They can be attached to catalog entities and
consumed by plugins as needed.

## Relations

This is a (non-exhaustive) list of relations that are known to be in active use.

Each relation has a _source_ (implicitly: the entity that holds the relation), a
_target_ (the entity to which the source has a relation), and a _type_ that
tells what relation the source has with the target. The relation is directional;
there are commonly pairs of relation types and the entity at the other end will
have the opposite relation in the opposite direction (e.g. when querying for
`A`, you will see `A.ownedBy.B`, and when querying `B`, you will see

> `B.ownerOf.A`).

Reviewer: Perhaps a quick mention of adding new relations to `packages/catalog-model/src/kinds/relations.ts` and following guidelines in the comments there?

Author: done!

this relation is for display purposes in Backstage, so that people looking at
catalog entities can get an understanding of to whom this entity belongs. It is
not to be used by automated processes to for example assign authorization in
runtime systems. There may be others that also develop or otherwise touch the
entity, but there will always be one ultimate owner.

This relation is commonly generated based on `spec.owner` of the owned entity,
where present.

### `consumesApi` and `providesApi`

A relation with an [API](descriptor-format.md#kind-api) entity, typically from a
[Component](descriptor-format.md#kind-component) or
[System](descriptor-format.md#kind-system).

These relations express that a component or system either exposes an API -
meaning that it hosts callable endpoints from which you can consume that API -
or that they are dependent on being able to consume that API.

This relation is commonly generated based on `spec.implementsApis` of the
component or system in question.

### `dependsOn` and `dependencyOf`

A relation denoting a dependency on another entity.

This relation is a general expression of being in need of that other entity for

> your functioning. It can for example be used to express that a website component

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
an entity to function. It can for example be used to express that a website component
```

possible suggestion, just avoiding the "your" in this case as too casual?
